---
id: okd3-deploy-vscode
title: Start a VSCode server
---

## Start VSCode with root privileges

:::caution Root permission required

🔒 You need root containers (aka. anyuid) enabled in your project to start this application.

:::

Those templates will run VSCode with the `coder` user which has `sudo` privileges.

Create the templates in your project catalog:

```bash
oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MaastrichtU-IDS/dsri-openshift-applications/main/templates-anyuid/template-vscode-root-persistent.yml
```

You can deploy it using the **VisualStudio Code with root user** solutions in the [Catalog web UI](https://app.dsri.unimaas.nl:8443/console/catalog):

> This application uses an existing Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) for a persistent storage of the data.

## Start VSCode with restricted user

Use the **VisualStudio Code in the browser (Dynamic)** template to start a simple pod on a CPU node with a VisualStudio Code server. You will be able to access the application via an URL generated by the DSRI.

Packages installed:

* Python3.7
* Java 11
* NodeJS and NPM

Create the template in your project catalog:

```bash
oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MaastrichtU-IDS/dsri-openshift-applications/main/templates-restricted/template-vscode-dynamic.yml
```

:::warning Restricted user

**You will not be root user**⚠️ you will be able to install new `pip` packages, but you will not have `sudo` privileges (so no installation of `apt` or `yum` packages)

:::

:::caution Use Chrome

We recommend to **use Google Chrome** web browser as pasting in the terminal (`ctrl + shift + v`) won't work on Firefox

:::

## Use Git in VSCode

You will need to use `git` from the terminal to clone the git repository, for example:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/MaastrichtU-IDS/dsri-openshift-applications.git
```

:::tip Login to GitHub

VisualStudio will prompt a window to give permission to GitHub in a web page if the repository is private, **this option does not work**, you need to cancel this window, then VSCode will ask your for username and password!

:::

Once the repository cloned, you can use git from the VSCode web UI to manage your `git` repositories (add, commit, push changes).

:::caution Configure git username

Before pushing back to GitHub or GitLab, you will need to **configure you username and email** in VSCode terminal:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Jean Dupont"
git config --global user.email jeandupont@gmail.com
```

:::

:::info Save your git password

You can run this command to ask git to save your password for 15min:

```bash
git config credential.helper cache
```

Or store the password in a plain text file:

```bash
git config --global credential.helper 'store --file ~/.git-credentials'
```

:::

:::tip Git tip

We recommend to use SSH instead of HTTPS connection when possible, checkout [here](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/authenticating-to-github/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) how to generate SSH keys and use them with your GitHub account.

:::

## VSCode for GPU

See the [Deploy on GPU](/dsri-documentation/docs/deploy-on-gpu) page to deploy a VisualStudio Code server on GPU.